---
layout: page
title: "Privacy Policy"
description: "This privacy statement explains to users the nature, extent and purpose, the collection and use of personal data by the LaTeX Project."
---

# Data Privacy

## Scope

This privacy statement explains to users the nature, extent and purpose, the collection and use of personal data by the responsible provider (The LaTeX Project, see contact page) on this website (referred to as "the offer" below).

The legal basis of data protection can be found in the Federal Data Protection Act (BDSG) and the Telemedia Act (TMG) of the Federal Republic of Germany.

### Access data / Server logs

The provider (or his internet provider) collects access data on each access to the offer (so-called server log files).

The collected access data includes the retrieved Web page name or file, the date and time of access, the transferred data volume, report of successful retrieval, browser type/version, operating system of the user, referrer URL (previously visited page), IP address and the requesting provider.

The provider uses the data for statistical analysis, for the purpose of the operation, safety and optimization of the offer.

However, the provider reserves the right to check the log data later if there is reasonable suspicion of unlawful use due to concrete indications.

### Handling of personal data

Personal information is information that will help to make a person identifiable, i.e., data that can be traced back to a person. This includes the name, email address or telephone number. However, other data such as preferences, memberships or which web pages were viewed by someone can count among personal data.

#### Getting in touch

While contacting the provider (for example, using a contact form or e-mail) the details of the user are stored for editing the request and for the case that follow-up questions arise.

#### Comments and posts

When users leave comments or other contributions, their IP addresses are stored. This is done for the safety of the provider, in case someone writes illegal content in comments and contributions (insults, banned political propaganda, etc.). In this case, the provider may be held responsible even for the comment or post and is therefore interested in the identity of the author.

#### Integration of services and content of third parties

It is possible that within this online offer content from third parties such as YouTube videos, PDF documents from or graphics are integrated from other websites. This always requires that the provider of such content (hereinafter referred to as "third-party") obtains the IP address of the user. Without this IP address they could not provide the content back to the browser of the user. We have no control over the use of the IP address by the third-party, e.g., for statistical purposes.

#### Cookies

Cookies are small files that allow to store device specific information on the user device (PC, smartphone, etc.) They help to improve the usability of websites and thus improve the user experience (e.g., by storing session information). They also often serve to capture statistical data about the website usage that can be analyzed. Users can influence the use of cookies. Most browsers have an option that limits the storage of cookies or prevents it completely. Note, however, that the use of a website and especially the ease of use without cookies is often limited.


#### Google services

This site uses a number of Google services, such as a local search facility, linking to YouTube channels or displaying ads. To facilitate such services cookies are set and data (such as search phrases) is collected.
How Google uses data collected through such services is described in the [Google privacy statement](https://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/privacy/partners/).

In particular this website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. (“Google”).  Google Analytics uses “cookies”, which are text files placed on your computer, to help the website analyze how users use the site. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States.  In case of activation of the IP anonymization, Google will truncate/anonymize the last octet of the IP address for Member States of the European Union as well as for other parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area.  Only in exceptional cases, the full IP address is sent to and shortened by Google servers in the USA.  On behalf of the website provider Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for website operators and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage to the website provider.  Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google.  You may refuse the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser. However, please note that if you do this, you may not be able to use the full functionality of this website.  Furthermore you can prevent Google’s collection and use of data (cookies and IP address) by [downloading and installing the browser plug-in available from google](https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=en-GB).
